# TFG - Machine Learning-based Predictive Modeling of Coronary Heart Disease in Type 2 Diabetic Populations

## Introduction

This repository contains the code and resources used for the TFG titled "Machine Learning-based Predictive Modeling of Coronary Heart Disease in Type 2 Diabetic Populations". The project develops predictive models using various machine learning techniques to identify the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) among individuals with type 2 diabetes.

## Repository Structure

- `tfg_code.ipynb`: Jupyter Notebook containing the complete workflow of the project, including data cleaning, feature selection, model training, and evaluation.
- `app.py`: The main Python script for the Streamlit application, allowing interactive Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA).
- `Dockerfile`: Contains instructions to build a Docker image for the Streamlit application.
- `docker-compose.yml`: Configuration file for Docker Compose, facilitating the setup and running of the Dockerized application.
- `final_dataset.csv`: The cleaned and pre-processed dataset used for training and evaluating the machine learning models.
- `Report_PandasProfiling.html`: An HTML report generated by the Pandas Profiling tool, giving a comprehensive overview of the dataset used in the project.
- `Logo_uab.png`: Logo of the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona used in the application.
- `requirements.txt`: Lists all the Python dependencies required to run the scripts and applications in the repository, used in Dockerization.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- Python 3.x
- Jupyter Notebook
- Docker

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/carlosla2802/TFG-repo.git
    cd TFG-repo
    ```

2. Build and run the Docker container:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up
    ```

### Usage

- **Jupyter Notebook**: To explore the project code and run the analysis, open the Jupyter Notebook:
    ```bash
    jupyter notebook tfg_code.ipynb
    ```

- **Streamlit App**: To run the Streamlit app for Exploratory Data Analysis, execute:
    ```bash
    streamlit run app.py
    ```

## Project Overview

The project aims to predict the onset of coronary heart disease (CHD) in type 2 diabetic populations using machine learning models. The steps involved include:

1. **Data Cleaning and Pre-processing**: Removing irrelevant data, handling missing values, and transforming data types.
2. **Feature Selection**: Identifying the most relevant features using various selection techniques.
3. **Model Training and Evaluation**: Training different machine learning models and evaluating their performance.
4. **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)**: Developing an interactive EDA tool using Streamlit and Plotly.
5. **Hyperparameter Tuning**: Optimizing the best-performing models to improve accuracy and reliability.

## Acknowledgments

- **Tutor**: Prof. Walter Andrés Ortiz Vargas
- **University**: Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB)
- **Data Source**: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)

